README.md, before:

# Mission to Mars

A web application that scrapes various websites for data related to the Mission to Mars, stores scraped data in MongoDB, and displays the latest information in a single HTML page.

## Step 1 - Scraping

`mission_to_mars.ipynb`: the Jupyter Notebook file that outlines all the scraping. Python libraries used: BeautifulSoup, Pandas, and Splinter

* Scrape latest news title and paragraph text from the [NASA Mars News Site](https://mars.nasa.gov/news/).
* Scrape the image url for the current featured Mars Image from [JPL Featured Space Image](https://www.jpl.nasa.gov/spaceimages/?search=&category=Mars).
* Scrape the latest Mars weather tweet from the [Mars Weather twitter account](https://twitter.com/marswxreport?lang=en) 
* Scrape Mars metrics (e.g. diameter, mass) from the [Mars Facts webpage](http://space-facts.com/mars/).
* Scrape Mars hemispheres images and names from the [USGS Astrogeology site](https://astrogeology.usgs.gov/search/results?q=hemisphere+enhanced&k1=target&v1=Mars).

## Step 2 - MongoDB and Flask Application

`scrape_mars.py`: declares a function called `scrape` that executes all the above scraping and returns the scraped data.

`app.py`: creates an app route called `/scrape` that calls the `scrape` function and store data in Mongo database; creates a root route `/` that queries the Mongo database and pass the mars data into an HTML template to display the data.

`index.html`: a template HTML file that display all data in the appropriate HTML elements.

## Webpage Screenshots

Screenshot 1:
<img src="Images/webpage1.png" alt="webpage screenshot 1" style="width: 60%; display: block; margin: auto;">
Screenshot 2:
<img src="Images/webpage2.png" alt="webpage screenshot 2" style="width: 60%; display: block; margin: auto;">
Screenshot 3:
<img src="Images/webpage3.png" alt="webpage screenshot 2" style="width: 60%; display: block; margin: auto;">

Commit message:

Add how to run the app section in readme file

README.md, after:

# Mission to Mars

A web application that scrapes various websites for real-time data related to the Mission to Mars, stores scraped data in MongoDB, and displays the latest information in a single HTML page.

## Step 1 - Scraping

`mission_to_mars.ipynb`: the Jupyter Notebook file that outlines all the scraping. Python libraries used: BeautifulSoup, Pandas, and Splinter

* Scrape latest news title and paragraph text from the [NASA Mars News Site](https://mars.nasa.gov/news/).
* Scrape the image url for the current featured Mars Image from [JPL Featured Space Image](https://www.jpl.nasa.gov/spaceimages/?search=&category=Mars).
* Scrape the latest Mars weather tweet from the [Mars Weather twitter account](https://twitter.com/marswxreport?lang=en) 
* Scrape Mars metrics (e.g. diameter, mass) from the [Mars Facts webpage](http://space-facts.com/mars/).
* Scrape Mars hemispheres images and names from the [USGS Astrogeology site](https://astrogeology.usgs.gov/search/results?q=hemisphere+enhanced&k1=target&v1=Mars).

## Step 2 - MongoDB and Flask Application

`scrape_mars.py`: declares a function called `scrape` that executes all the above scraping and returns the scraped data.

`app.py`: creates an app route called `/scrape` that calls the `scrape` function and store data in Mongo database; creates a root route `/` that queries the Mongo database and pass the mars data into an HTML template to display the data.

`index.html`: a template HTML file that display all data in the appropriate HTML elements.

## How to run this app

1. Clone this repository.
2. Make sure MongoDB is installed. [Here](Installing-MongoDB.md) is installation instruction from Northwestern Data Science Bootcamp.
3. In terminal (or command line in Windows), type `mongod`
4. Open another terminal window, navigate to `mars-web-scraping/` directory (where this README file is located).
5. In the terminal, type `python app.py`. The webpage will display on local browser.

## Webpage Screenshots

Screenshot 1:
<img src="Images/webpage1.png" alt="webpage screenshot 1" style="width: 60%; display: block; margin: auto;">
Screenshot 2:
<img src="Images/webpage2.png" alt="webpage screenshot 2" style="width: 60%; display: block; margin: auto;">
Screenshot 3:
<img src="Images/webpage3.png" alt="webpage screenshot 2" style="width: 60%; display: block; margin: auto;">
